# Session 7A Version Control using Git and Working with GitHub
## Exercise 1 – Git Basics
For this exercise, one person should share their screen and walk everyone through the exercise,
so that everyone in the group follows along on their own machine. Make sure everyone is ok
with all steps and take things as slowly as you need. Refer back to the lecture slides to help you.
1. If this is your first time using Git, you should configure your username and email as per the instructions in the slides.
```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

2. Create a new folder somewhere on your machine and open it in VSCode.
```bash
mkdir my_folder
cd my_folder
code .
```

3. Initialize a new Git repository in this new folder.
```bash
git init
```
4. Write a simple piece of code, and save the file in your new folder.
```python
# my_script.py
print("Hello, world!")
```
5. Check the status of your repository using the Source Control panel – you should see that Git is aware of your new file, but is not tracking changes.

6. Stage and commit the new file, with an appropriate commit message. Check the status again both post-stage and post-commit.
### stage
```bash
git add my_script.py
```

### commit
```bash
git commit -m "INIT: first commit"
```

7. Check the timeline to see the details of your commit.
8. Make some changes to your code file, and save them
```python
# my_script.py
print("Hello, world!")
print("Hello again, world!")
```

9. Check the status of your repository again – you should see that Git has identified that the code file has been modified, but notes the changes have not yet been staged for commit.
```bash
git status
```
Or check the staus in VS Code git sidebar - will show the file uncommitted
10. Stage and commit the changes.
```bash
git add my_script.py
git commit -m "EDIT: second commit"
```
11. View the timeline to see the details of your commit history
12. Look at the diff between the two commits.
13. Make further changes to the code file. Perhaps add a deliberate bug / error.
14. Stage and commit the changes.
```bash
git add my_script.py
git commit -m "EDIT: deliberate mistake"
```
15. View the timeline to look at the commit history.
```bash
git log
```
16. Look at the diff between the latest commits.
```bash
git diff
```
17. Use a Git Revert to revert the latest commit back to the previous version. Check the timeline and also flick back to your code– you should see it’s flipped back.
```bash
git revert <insert commit hash that is wrong, ie the one after the one you want>
```

18. Try creating a new code file in your repository and practice the above on the new file too.


